welcome back to movie recaps today i
will show you a drama
mystery thriller film from 2014 titled
before i go to sleep
spoilers ahead watch out and take care
christine wakes up in bed next to
someone
she gets up and grabs some clothes then
walks into the bathroom
one of the bathroom walls is covered in
photographs of her and the man
she sees the weeding band on her hand
then walks outside
ben is waiting for her on the bed he
tells her that they got married 14 years
ago and that she's 40 years old
as she gets dressed he explains that she
had a car accident 14 years ago
because of which she gained some
injuries which made it impossible for
her to remember everything
she stores up information for a day then
when she goes to bed it all disappears
and when she wakes up she thinks she's
in her twenties
he asks her to trust him but she's
scared while making breakfast
he keeps telling her about their life
together in their wedding before he
leaves for work
ben shows her a list of things she might
need and where to find them
she sees a note which says that she
needs to pack a bag
ben tells her that he'll be taking her
away for their anniversary
christine is alone trying to wrap her
head around everything when the
telephone rings
the voice on the other side is dr nash
who's been working with her on getting
her memory restored
he tells her that ben might not know
about her seeing a doctor
then he tells her to go look for a shoe
box in the back of her closet
christine opens the box and finds a
camera inside nash tells her to switch
it on
a recording of her place where she talks
about the problem with her memory
two weeks earlier christine is in a car
with dr nash
who admits that their professional
relationship is a little bit out of the
ordinary
with him picking her up from home and
seeing her without her husband's
knowledge
christine is scared and confused they
drive into a parking lot
and he tells her how he found her six
months before he explains that he's a
neuropsychologist and that he's
preparing a paper on the type of amnesia
she has
so he was willing to do the work for
free as they start walking to his office
dr nash tells her that even though she
didn't remember who he was when he
called the next day
she still agreed to work with him
christine has mentioned working with a
psychologist to her husband
but he was adamantly against it because
she had therapy in the past and had only
upset her
in his office he gives her the camera
and tells her to keep a visual diary
dr nash tells her that her injuries were
sustained in a vicious attack 10 years
before
they came from repeated blows to the
head she's confused because ben had told
her another story
the doctor shows her news articles about
the attack and she wonders why
someone would try to kill her he
explains that no one really knows part
from her
as they leave he tells her not to tell
ben about the camera so she doesn't feel
constrained to share her thoughts and
feelings
he tells her where to hide it and that
he'll call her in the morning to remind
her
she agrees to the plan that night while
ben prepares coco for them
christine goes to the bathroom to record
the first entry in her video diary
she explains about her memory and when
she hears ben coming up
she scrambles to hide the camera and
goes to bed pretending she's
already asleep christine wakes up the
next morning next to ben
he pretends that he's still asleep they
have the same conversation about her
memory
their life and her life she doesn't
understand what she does all day and
looks disappointed
later she's in the car with the doctor
again watching the video
christine says that without the
recording she would believe everything
that ben tells her
like the car accident she wonders what
else he lies to her about
dr nash says that he can't risk calling
her on the house phone
christine tells him that she doesn't
want to be afraid all the time and asks
if the treatment he's planning for her
will work
dr nash explains that in rare cases
going back to the scene of the attack
helps kick off the memory
but his reason behind going there is
building trust with her when they arrive
at the industrial complex they meet with
the caretaker
he takes them to the place where he
found her and tells them that she was
naked
with only a bed sheet around her and
that she was covered in blood
she couldn't remember anything even then
back in the car
she asked nash what she was doing by the
airport he tells her that there are a
lot of hotels in the area and suggests
that she might have been having an
affair
the medical report indicated recent
intercourse she asks him if she was
raped
but the doctor tells her that the report
has suggested otherwise
christine can't believe she could be a
cheater later she's in her bathroom
saying that she needs to remember what
happened
no matter what she has done she hears
the sounds of children playing and goes
to check
but there's no one outside that night
she walks in to take a shower
when ben joins her and begins kissing
her as they begin making love
she has a memory of someone with a scar
on his jaw they fall asleep together and
christine has a dream about a hotel room
in her attack
the next day tests are being performed
on christine by dr nash
he shows her pictures that she needs to
identify she looks at the pictures and
gets upset so she rings the panic button
in the mri
later they talk in a waiting room and he
tells her that some of the pictures were
random and others were in her file
the photo he shows her had produced a
distinct reaction in her brain
christine doesn't know who the woman in
the photo is even with the name claire
written on it
while having dinner with ben that night
she asks him if about claire
ben says that he doesn't know her then
asks why christine is brining it up
when she tells him that she had a memory
he gets invested in the amount she
remembers
she mentions a few things mostly from
the photo and he tells her that it
wasn't the first time she had remembered
claire
ben says that they were friends once but
that she moved away and that it doesn't
matter anymore
christine insists that it does matter
ben brings a box of photos he keeps in
his study
they are of her and claire she asks why
he hides them from her and ben explains
that he does that to protect her from
the fact that her friend couldn't handle
her situation
christine asks him how she could trust
him if he hides things from her
but ben tells her that he can't always
handle dealing with everything
later she makes a new recording saying
that ben is hiding claire from her and
that she can't trust him
after that he sees that she has taped
the photos of claire in the bathroom
dr nash calls christine and explains
everything to her all over again
she watches the recording from the
previous day the one saying not to trust
ben
then she zooms in seeing that the photos
that were there the previous day are
gone now
she gets angry and starts looking
through ben's study to find something
she finds a key which takes her to the
photos flipping through them she has a
memory about claire and her telling her
that she's pregnant
she rushes to check the pictures in the
bathroom and the pictures in the albums
but there is no evidence of a child she
might have had christine checks her
stomach and sees her stretch marks
there remembers a conversation with her
son she calls ben to ask about their
child and he comes home instantly
christine is upset and wants to know
where their child is ben embraces her
and tells her that their son died
once inside he tells her that the child
died from meningitis before his 9th
birthday
he gets another box that he's hiding
from her so that she doesn't stumble
upon them by herself and shows her a
photo of their son adam as a baby
christine cries but she doesn't remember
him as she goes through the photos
she sees his birth certificate and a
note in his handwriting
ben takes back the photos and later
christine makes another video in which
she says that while the grief might not
be new for ben
it is for her and it will be new every
other day for the rest of her life
christine has another nightmare about
the man with a scar in her attack
she wakes up terrified then watches her
recordings about adam and cries
christine begins taking apart the wall
of photos in the bathroom
when she talks to nash again she asks if
he knew about her son
and he tells her that they have spoken
about him before she has begun thinking
that maybe it's better if she doesn't
learn about everything
christine asks the doctor if they can
just sit there for a while then asks if
she should tell ben about the therapy
that night her and ben talk about adam
again she asks if she was a good mother
before the accident
ben says that she loved him very much
and she has a memory about him for a
moment
christine says that she understands how
difficult it must be for ben to go to
all of it over and over but tells him
not to hide her son from her again
he apologizes to her that night
christine has another nightmare
she's in a hotel and she can see her son
there she finds a note that has the name
mike on it and then remembers the man
with the scar again
lastly she remembers parts of the attack
christine awakens and forgets everything
again
christine is in the car with dr nash
going somewhere when they stop she tells
him the name mike
saying that he's the man that hurt her
the doctor comforts her and leans in to
kiss her when she sees that his name is
mike
she remembers him as striking her in the
hotel room so she runs from the car
he gets a syringe from his trunk and
runs after her on the lawn pier
eventually catching up to her later
christine is on her couch
when her phone rings she answers the
call from dr nash and he explains that
he gave her a sedative to calm her
not put her to sleep she remembers he
tells her that she was confused and
suffering from fabulation about him
placing all her fears and suspicions on
him before he hangs up
he says that he had found out something
about ben that he will have to explain
to her in person
ben arrives at the house and they have
dinner together he asks her who she was
talking to on the phone when he tried to
call her and she lies saying she was
calling him
the next day christine is listening to
dr nash explain how vulnerable patients
like her can develop feelings for their
psychiatrists
what is less common is for the
psychiatrist to develop feelings for
their patients
he says that's unprofessional she thinks
that he's her only hope and that they're
making progress
when he tells her that he will refer her
to a colleague dr nash thinks that
treating her further would be unethical
but he thinks that her progress is
noticeable because she had remembered to
watch the recording even before he had
called her that morning
next he tells her that he found out that
ben had her transferred from an asylum
to a nursing home
the doctor managed to talk to the
administrator who told him that her
friend claire had been trying to get in
touch with her
he gives her claire's number the
administrator also told nash that ben
had divorced her four years prior
later christine calls claire and leaves
her a message saying that she really
needs to talk to her
she goes to see ben at his work when she
asks if they're divorced
he gets angry but she pushes for the
truth ben tells her that it's because of
the death of their son
first he walked away from her but he had
come back and he will never leave her
again
that same day claire calls christine
back she remembers bits and pieces about
her as claire tells her that she had
kept ringing the nursing home where
christine was placed
she tells her that she misses her and
want to see her they arrange a meeting
at an observatory in an hour
christine goes to see claire and waits
for her on a bench when claire shows up
christine remembers her they've missed
each other very much
christine asks claire if she was a good
mother and she replies that she was
great
ben was also a good father she asks her
friend who did that to her
they grab a drink and claire tells her
that she was probably having an affair
she confessed it to her eventually but
never gave her any details about the man
claire apologizes to her for telling ben
but she had to do it since she had
already told the police
christine thinks that that's the reason
why ben never talks to her about
anything
including her claire tells her that
after her accident she tried to help ben
out and the two of them spent a lot of
time
together eventually sleeping together
she decided to stay away from them
because of that
before christine leaves she gives her a
note that ben left for her with claire
if she was ever good enough to read and
understand it
the letter explains the reasons why he
left her in it ben says that the main
reason was the happiness and well-being
of their son
who couldn't bear seeing her like that
anymore christine finishes the letter as
ben arrives at the house
she records a video in which she is
talking to ben telling him that by the
time he sees the video he will know
everything
including that the only thing she feels
for him is love later
christine shows ben the video she
recorded for him and starts telling him
about everything that has been happening
in the previous weeks
she tells him about dr nash and he's
angry that she kept that from him
when she tells him that she forgives him
that she loves him he hits her
christine calls claire and tells her
what has happened with ben she says that
she'll call him and call christine right
back
in the meantime she records a video in
which she says that he hit her
claire calls her back and tells her that
ben has been living alone and hasn't
seen her in four years
she asks her to describe ben to her
their descriptions don't match
claire tells her that ben has a scar on
the side of his face and christine has a
flashback
the bend she knows comes back and she
runs to the bathroom to check the photos
if he has a scar
when she doesn't see one claire tells
her that the man she's living with has
not been
suddenly christine notices that all of
the photographs on the wall are doctored
she begins to remember the attack and
begs clear to help her but she can't
remember her address
claire tells her to finds out as ben
tries to come inside
she has another flashback to the attack
then opens the door
ben isn't there christine walks down the
stairs and tries to walk out of the main
entrance
only to find it locked she finds the key
to the back door and exits the house
when ben suddenly grabs her christine
wakes up the following morning in her
bed with ben
she walks inside the bathroom and sees
the photos then walks out to find him
sitting on the bed telling her who he is
when he leaves the doctor calls her and
tells her to find the camera
she only sees the recording where she
says that she loves ben
after that she notices the bruise on her
cheek the phone rings and it's been this
time
asking if everything is okay he has her
cell phone which player is trying to
reach
ben reminds her to pack for their
anniversary she tells him that she loves
him
later nash is trying to phone christine
when he gets called to the main
reception
ben runs into him and introduces himself
nash asks how
christine is and ben tells him to stay
away from her that night
ben and christine take a drive down to a
hotel near the airport
she asks if it's really their
anniversary and he tells her that it's
not their wedding anniversary
but one of a different kind christine
doesn't understand why he brought her
there
he gives her a glass of champagne and
tells her that he wants her to remember
her attack
suddenly she remembers that he is
actually mike christine asks where ben
is and mike tells her that her husband
left her when he stayed he took her out
of the nursing home with fake documents
with the intention to take care of her
but now he's tired of lying and wants
her to remember everything
christine remembers the day of the
attack and him threatening her that
he'll call her husband
then hitting her she realizes that he
was the one that attacked her
he tells her that he hates himself for
what happened and begs her not to leave
christine is scared because she
remembers details about the night when
he attacked her
mike keeps begging her not to leave but
then steps aside to see if she will and
when she does he hits her again
he tells her that they will either leave
together or they won't leave at all
then he begins to delete all of her
recordings from the camera tells her
that she's free
mike tells her to kiss him and she does
it out of fear he tells her that she has
to forget ben and adam because they have
forgotten her
christine realizes that adam isn't dead
and he starts beating her up again
she fights back but he overpowers her
and begins to strangle her
christine stabs him and tries to escape
though he just grabs her again
eventually she incapacitates him and
escapes the room then activates the fire
alarm
ambulances and the police have circled
the hotel christine is at the back of an
ambulance
recording a new video explaining what
happened to her later
dr nash walks into her hospital room and
wakes her up telling her who
he is he tells her that he is there as
her friend and not her doctor
because she needs someone to take care
of her claire will pick her up and take
her home with her
he asks her if she remembers claire
christine says that she does
nash continues talking to her saying
that mike will be in prison for a long
time for what he did to her
then he tells her that he has a visitor
for her that might become the
breakthrough in her treatment
nash turns around and ben her real
ex-husband is at the door
dr nash lets him inside the room he
approaches her and tells her that he's
her ben
that he never would have stayed away if
he knew she was in danger he sits down
and tells her about adam
ben says that both of them love her very
much he goes out to get adam
the boy walks in and approaches his
mother he introduces himself to her and
she starts remembering something that
she used to say to him when he was
little
christine remembers him finally they
embrace as she says that he's her adam
make sure to subscribe and turn on
notifications so you can watch more
videos like this
thanks for watching